- [Instructor] The next step will be to invoke
that order client that we just created
in the user service implementation.
So let's head back to the IDE.
And in the UserServiceImpl class,
let's put a comment here,
that we are getting orders
by invoking the order client.
Okay.
So what do we need to do for this?
The first step is to create that channel.
Let's establish an endpoint connection
with the order service.
That will be represented by an API called ManagedChannel.
And how do we create this?
There's a builder for it
which has a method called forTarget on it.
So we're creating an HTTP/2 connection
for the order service,
and the target URL for the order service,|
we already know,
is localhost 50052.
So that is what we will feed to that forTarget method.
In addition to this,
let us just use a plain text
for this channel.
And then build this object.
Once we do this, let's instantiate that order client.
And that one takes the channel as an argument.
So I'm just going to pass that channel object
that we created on line 35, on line 37.
So just to recap.
If you go to the order client,
the order client constructor takes channel,
on line 17,
as a parameter.
And using that channel,
it'll help us grab the stub object.
So that is essentially how you tie that channel
in order to get the stub.
So the channel is instantiated
at the place where you're invoking the client.
Let's go back to the user service now.
Once we do this, the last thing that we have to do is,
call the service method from the client.
So list of,
this will be the order stubs that is the gRPC stub,
this one.
And we can say, orders,
grab that client,
and call the getOrders method.
This will take a user ID as an argument,
so that we can pick from the user response
builder object from line 26.
It's already present there.
So I'm just going to take that same variable.
And say getId.
There we go.
That is all, so you created a channel.
You fed that to the client
which will get you the stub.
And then the client is going to call the service
by using that stub.
There is one additional thing that we need to do here.
What we'll do is,
we will extract the number of orders
from that list on line 38.
And put that as an extra parameter inside the user response.
But the user response we know is a proto object,
which means if you want to add a new field,
you will have to change the user proto file.
So let's do that.
Let's open the user proto.
And under this message,
UserResponse that we have on line 14,
I will add one more field,
which is a simple int field
for number of orders.
Let's tag it with six.
And now I have to build this project again,
so that the changes that I did to the user proto file
get reflected in the generated stubs.
So basically we are regenerating stubs.
So let's go ahead and click on the Clean and Install
goals of Maven.
This should take a while,
but when it builds completely,
then we should be able to get the new field
in the user response,
which is called number of orders.
Okay.
So the build was a success.
Let's go back to UserServiceImpl.
Let's minimize this Maven tab.
And now what we're going to do is,
we're just going to grab that user response builder
and set the number of orders.
So now we have this method,
set number of orders available,
because we just regenerated stubs.
Please do not forget to regenerate stubs.
Otherwise you wouldn't be able to see this new method.
So the number of orders will be just grab the orders object
on line 38,
and invoke the size.
That is all.
So what we did is we extracted the list, orders,
and we got the size of those orders.
And we embedded that into the user response.
Now this is just for the convenience of this course,
convenience of this demo.
You can, however, grab any other data
from the orders objects and put it in the user response.
This will completely depend on what your requirements are.
The last thing that we have to do here is,
which is quite important,
the managed channel object that we created on line 35,
that is a resource.
And it, additionally uses resources like threads,
TCP connections, et cetera.
So,
if you want to make multiple calls
after you did that call on line 38,
then you can keep that channel open.
However, if you do not have multiple calls being made,
then it will be your responsibility
to shut that channel completely.
This is cleanup that we have to do in order to make sure
that these resources are not leaked out.
So let's do that.
We just have to grab that channel variable
that we created on line 35,
and call the shutdown method.
And this is pretty much going to follow
the same cycle that we have.
We shut down so that no calls are accepted
and await termination for maybe five seconds,
and then shut it.
This will, of course,
ask you to do the handling via a try/catch.
So we added the try/catch block.
And I'm not too happy
with the printStackTrace line on line number 43.
So I go right at the top,
and add a logger.
We have a logger on line 21.
So we'll just grab that logger.
And log the exception using the logger,
on line 43.
So let's say, logger.log,
level will be severe.
Exceptions, so say channel did not shut down,
and feed the exception object.
So log the exception properly.
And then we're done.
So remember, you will have to do this,
lines 40 to 44.
This code is essential when you know that
you have normal calls to do
which is why you need to shut down the channel.
However, I iterate that if you have multiple calls
that you want to do,
then you can keep that channel open.
The last bit in this is,
we will just go ahead
and take lines 34 to 44,
and extract this into another method
so that the code looks a little cleaner.
So refactor and extract method.
There we go.
So now we have the get orders method
that was extracted from line 43 to 57.
That takes a channel,
instantiate the client,
calls the service,
and gets us the list of orders.
We come back on line 34 after the call gets completed
and the number of orders
will be set to the user response object.
After that the user response will be finally built
and sent back to the client to complete the RPC call.